# ElectionGuard Glossary

## Overview

The mixed language of elections, cryptography, end-to-end verifiability, even our coding conventions, makes for a complex, easily-misunderstood stew of overweighted terms. This glossary and the SDK attempt to straddle all these subject areas by using terms appropriate to each of these contexts by using words appropriate for each:

* for election administrators, terms that map to their conception of the voting process and user experience;
* for developers, efficient constructs that convey the action to be performed or the proper state of the entity they're working with;
* for cryptographers and verifier contributors, consistency of usage between the specification and code, and sufficiently clear descriptions of the techniques and terms necessary for proper treatment and interpretation of all election artifacts and processes; and
* for everyone, clear articulation of the meaning and rationale for the different facets of end-to-end verifiability

To illustrate what that means in practice, take one of the fundamental tenets of end-to-end verifiability: ***spoiling***, ***challenging***, or ***decrypting*** a ballot. They can be the same or different things depending on your context.  This glossary will address this challenge by defining each term in its own, of course, but also whether we intend for it to be used in a coding (SDK), vernacular (election community), or cryptographic or end-to-end verifiability context.

So in this example (and by implication the pattern actually used in the SDK, specification and documentation:

* ***Spoiling a ballot*** is a process **election administrators** use to allow voters who make mistakes filling out a ballot to begin again with a replacement ballot; in this context, the spoil process is a physical process undertaken by poll workers to ensure the ballot with a mistake is not included in any tallies.
* ***Challenging a ballot*** is the process **voters** use to challenge the integrity of the voting system by forcing it to reveal what it *would have* submitted if the ballot were actually cast; challenged ballots are published in their **unencrypted (original, human-readable) state**
* ***Decrypting a ballot*** is the process **developers** use to reveal a ballot's unencrypted contents; **election guardians** decrypt challenge ballots as part of the election publishing process

!!! Info
    Whenever possible, we used terms and meanings consistent the [NIST Elections Guide](https://pages.nist.gov/ElectionEventLogging/index.html).

## Terms

### accepted ballot

A ballot that is accepted for inclusion in election results and is either: cast or spoiled.

### auxiliary key pair

Pair of keys (public & secret) used to encrypt/decrypt information sent between guardians

### available guardian

A guardian that has announced as present for the decryption phase

### ballot box

A collection of ballots that have been either cast or spoiled.

### ballot chain

### ballot lifecycle



### base hash $Q$

Represented as $Q$, the *base hash* is the [hash](#hash) of the election

### cast ballot

A ballot which a voter has accepted as valid to be included in the official election tally.

### ciphertext ballot

An encrypted representation of a voter's filled-in ballot.

### ciphertext election context

The cryptographic context of an election that is configured during the Key Ceremony

### code (see [verification code](#verification-code))

*Code* is a heavily-weighted term that could lead to confusion. In the context of this Grammar and SDK, *code* refers *in the code libraries themselves* to the hexadecimal string generated by the [ballot encryption](concepts/Ballot_Encryption.md) process. In conversation and election *vernacular*, the proper term is [verification code](#verification-code), and its meaning is explained more fully there.

### compensated decryption share

A partial decryption share value computed by an available guardian to compensate for a missing guardian so that the missing guardian's share can be generated and the election results can be successfully decrypted.

### contest

A *contest* in an [*election*](#election) consists of a set of options together with a selection limit that indicates the number of selections that are allowed to be made in that contest. In most elections, most contests have a selection limit of one. However, a larger selection limit (e.g., select up to three) is not uncommon in some elections. Approval voting can be achieved by setting the selection limit to the total number of options in a contest. Ranked choice voting is not supported in this version of ElectionGuard, but it may be enabled in a future version.2 Also, write-ins are assumed to be explicitly registered or allowed to be lumped into a single "write-ins" category for the purpose of verifiable tallying. Verifiable tallying of free-form write-ins may be best done with a MixNet3 design.

A legitimate vote in a contest consists of a set of selections with cardinality not exceeding the selection limit of that contest. To accommodate legitimate undervotes, the internal representation of a contest is augmented with “placeholder” options equal in number to the selection limit. Placeholder options are selected as necessary to force the total number of selections made in a contest to be equal to the selection limit. When the selection limit is one, for example, the single placeholder option can be thought of as a “none of the above” option.

With larger selection limits, the number of placeholder options selected corresponds to the number of additional options that a voter could have selected in a contest.

### description hash (*preferred:* [base hash](#base-hash-q))

A hash representation of the original [election description](#election-description----see-election-manifest)

### decryption mediator

A component or actor responsible for composing each guardian's partial decryptions or compensated decryptions into the plaintext tally

### decryption share

A guardian's partial share of a decryption

### election

### election description -- see [election manifest](#election-manifest)

The election metadata that describes the structure and type of the election, including geopolitical units, contests, candidates, ballot styles, etc. A subset of this data, the [internal election description](#internal-election-description) is encrypted with the [joint public key](#joint-key) generated by the [key ceremony](#key-ceremony) conducted by the [election guardians](#guardian) to generate the [extended base hash](#extended-base-hash-overlineq) that will be used to uniquely associate an encrypted ballot with a specific election.

### election manifest

### encryption device

The device that is doing the encryption

### end-to-end-verifiable election

End-to-end verifiability is a set of security, cryptographic, and voting user experiences that provide voters  the ability to confirm their vote was included in the published election tally, and independent observers and third parties the ability to confirm the tally was correctly computed and not tampered with

### election guardian

### election key pair

Pair of keys (public & secret) used to encrypt/decrypt election

### election manifest

An election manifest (see [election manifest](concepts/Election_Manifest.md) article) contains election metadata in json format that is parsed into an [Election Description](#election-description----see-election-manifest)

### election partial key backup

A point on a secret polynomial and commitments to verify this point for a designated guardian.

### election polynomial

The election polynomial is the mathematical expression that each Guardian defines to solve for his or her private key. A different point associated with the polynomial is shared with each of the other guardians so that the guardians can come together to derive the polynomial function and solve for the private key.

### extended base hash $\overline{Q}$

### encrypting a ballot

As [outlined in the ElectionGuard Specification](../spec/0.95.0/5_Ballot_encryption.md)

### encrypted tally

The homomorphically-combined and encrypted representation of all selections made for each option on every contest in the election.

### guardian (see [election guardian](#election-guardian))

One of a number of independent, trustworthy individuals who participate in [key ceremonies](#key-ceremony) to create a [joint public election key](#joint-key) as well as [tally ceremonies](#tally)

### hash

*Hashing* is a common practice in computing; we use hashing in its [cryptographic context](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cryptographic_hash_function), a mechanism to map data of an arbitrary size and map it into a fixed-size equivalent. This is done to prevent discovery of election ballot contents (which in many contexts is simply sets of zeros and ones to reflect ballot choices).

### internal election description

The subset of the [election description](#election-description----see-election-manifest) required by ElectionGuard and combined with the [joint public key](#joint-key) to create the [extended base hash](#extended-base-hash-overlineq) used at the instantiation of the [encrypted ballot](#encrypting-a-ballot) [ballot chain](#ballot-chain) ballots are correctly associated with an election.  This component mutates the state of the Election Description.

### joint key

Combined public key from election public keys of each guardian

### key ceremony

The process conducted at the beginning of the election to create the joint encryption context for encrypting ballots during the election.

### key ceremony mediator

A mediator to mediate communication (if needed) of information such as keys between the guardians

### master nonce

A mediator to mediate communication (if needed) of information such as keys between the guardians

### missing guardian

A guardian who was configured during the Key Ceremony but who is not present for the decryption of the election results.

### nonce

A random number used to derive encryptions

### plaintext ballot

The plaintext representation of a voter's selections

### post-election audit

A post-election audit is

### $Q$ --see [Base hash](#base-hash-q)

The *base hash* is the *hash* of the [election manifest](#election-manifest) metadata

### $\overline{Q}$ --see [Extended base hash](#extended-base-hash-barq)

### quorum

The minimum count (_threshold_) of guardians that must be present in order to successfully decrypt the election results.

### spoiled ballot (see also [challenge ballot](#verification-code))

A *spoiled ballot* is an election term that refers to a ballot that, typically due to a mistake, allows a voter to turn in their ballot and instead submit a replacement ballot as their official [**cast ballot**](#cast-ballot). In this context, *spoiling* is the process election administrators use to make sure this ballot is not included in the election tally.

Ballot spoiling is used in [*end-to-end verifiability*](concepts/Verifiable_Election.md) as a means for voters to challenge the voting machine and force it to reveal the contents of spoiled ballots for public scrutiny. Because the ballot will not be used in the official tally, its contents can be revealed. And because the spoil process happens after ballot encryption, the machine cannot modify the encrypted ballot retrospectively without revealing its attempt.

### submitted ballot

### tally ceremony

### undervote

An ***undervote*** in a **[contest](#contest)** or **[election](#election)**

### unknown ballot

An *unknown ballot* is a [submitted ballot](#submitted-ballot) which has not been determined to be [cast](#cast-ballot) or [spoiled](#spoiled-ballot), or that may have been spoiled but is otherwise not published in the election results.

### verification code

A unique hash value generated by an Encryption Device to anonymously identify a ballot
